# Compare quartet states by explicit enumeration

`CompareQuartets()` uses explicit enumeration to compare two lists of
quartet states (Estabrook et al. 1985) , detailing how many are
identical and how many are unresolved. For most purposes, the faster
function [`QuartetStatus()`](QuartetStatus.md) will be preferable.

## Usage

``` r
CompareQuartets(x, cf)
```

## Arguments

- x, cf:

  List of quartet states, perhaps generated by
  [`QuartetStates()`](QuartetState.md).

## Value

Returns an array of seven numeric elements, corresponding

- N:

  The total number of quartet *statements* for two trees of *n* leaves,
  i.e. 2 *Q*.

- Q:

  The total number of quartets for *n* leaves.

- s:

  The number of quartets that are resolved identically in both trees.

- d:

  The number of quartets that are resolved differently in each tree.

- r1:

  The number of quartets that are resolved in tree 1, but not in tree 2.

- r2:

  The number of quartets that are resolved in tree 2, but not in tree 1.

- u:

  The number of quartets that are unresolved in both trees.

## References

Estabrook GF, McMorris FR, Meacham CA (1985). “Comparison of undirected
phylogenetic trees based on subtrees of four evolutionary units.”
*Systematic Zoology*, **34**(2), 193–200.
[doi:10.2307/2413326](https://doi.org/10.2307/2413326) .

## See also

- [`QuartetStatus()`](QuartetStatus.md) generates the same output from a
  list of trees.

Other element-by-element comparisons:
[`CompareQuartetsMulti()`](CompareQuartetsMulti.md),
[`CompareSplits()`](CompareSplits.md),
[`PairSharedQuartetStatus()`](PairSharedQuartetStatus.md),
[`QuartetState()`](QuartetState.md),
[`SharedQuartetStatus()`](QuartetStatus.md),
[`SplitStatus()`](SplitStatus.md)

Other quartet counting functions: [`AllQuartets()`](AllQuartets.md),
[`CompareQuartetsMulti()`](CompareQuartetsMulti.md),
[`ResolvedQuartets()`](ResolvedQuartets.md)

## Author

[Martin R. Smith](https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5660-1727)
(<martin.smith@durham.ac.uk>)

## Examples

``` r
  trees <- list(TreeTools::BalancedTree(6),
                TreeTools::PectinateTree(6))
  quartets <- QuartetStates(trees)
  CompareQuartets(quartets[[1]], quartets[[2]])
#>  N  Q  s  d r1 r2  u 
#>  2  1  1  0  0  0  0 
```
